Example/web3swiftExample/Pods/web3swift/README.md, before:

![bkx-foundation-github-swift](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3356474/34412791-5b58962c-ebf0-11e7-8460-5592b12e6e9d.png)

## Important notices
With the version 0.3.0 API should be less volatile. All public functions should return a [Result](https://github.com/antitypical/Result) instead of `nil` or throwing.

Example is updated for 0.5.0, although please prefer to use tests as an example for your code.

# web3swift

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/web3swift.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/web3swift)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/web3swift.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/web3swift)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/web3swift.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/web3swift)
[![support](https://brianmacdonald.github.io/Ethonate/svg/eth-support-blue.svg)](https://brianmacdonald.github.io/Ethonate/address#0x6394b37Cf80A7358b38068f0CA4760ad49983a1B)

- Swift implementation of [web3.js](https://github.com/ethereum/web3.js/) functionality :zap:
- Interaction with remote node via JSON RPC :thought_balloon:
- Smart-contract ABI parsing :book:
  - ABI deconding
  - RLP encoding
- Interactions (read/write to Smart contracts) :arrows_counterclockwise:
- Local keystore management (geth compatible)
- Literally following the standarts:
  - [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) HD Wallets: Deterministic Wallet
  - [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) (Seed phrases)
  - [BIP44](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki) (Key generation prefixes)
  - [EIP-155](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-155.md) (Replay attacks protection) *enforced!*


## Check this out

- Private key and transaction were created directly on the iOS device and sent directly to [Infura](https://infura.io) node
- Native API
- Security (as cool as hard wallet! Right out-of-the-box! :box: )

## Design decisions

- Not every JSON RPC function is exposed yet, priority is gives to ones required for mobile devices
- Functionality was focused on serializing and signing transactions locally on device to send raw transaction to Ethereum network
- Requirements for password input on every transactions are indeed a design decision. Interface designers can save user passwords given user's consent
- Public function for private key export is exposed for user convenience, but marked as UNSAFE_ :) Normal workflow takes care of EIP155 compatibility and proper clearing of private key data from memory

### Here it is
[https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/tx/0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/tx/0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056)

```
Transaction
Nonce: 35
Gas price: 5000000000
Gas limit: 21000
To: 0x6394b37Cf80A7358b38068f0CA4760ad49983a1B
Value: 1000000000000000
Data: 0x
v: 43
r: 73059897783840535708732471549376620878882680550447969052675399628060606060727
s: 12280625377431973240236065453692843538037349746280474092545114784968542260859
Intrinsic chainID: Optional(4)
Infered chainID: Optional(4)
sender: Optional(web3swift.EthereumAddress(_address: "0x855adf524273c14b7260a188af0ae30e82e91959"))

["id": 1514485925, "result": 0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056, "jsonrpc": 2.0]
On Rinkeby TXid = 0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056
```

## Example

You can try it by yourself by running the example project:

- Clone the repo
- `cd Example/web3swiftExample`
- run `pod install` from the `Example/web3swiftExample` directory.
- `open ./web3swiftExample.xcworkspace`

### Requirements

Web3swift requires Swift 4.0 and iOS 9.0 or macOS 10.13 although we recommend to use the latest iOS and MacOS versions for your own safety.

### Installation

web3swift is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod 'web3swift', git: 'https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift.git'
```
### Current functionality

- Send transactions, call functions of smart-contracts, estimate gas costs
- Serialize and deserialize transactions and results to native Swift types
- Convenience functions for chain state: block number, gas price
- Check transaction results and get receipt
- Parse event logs for transaction
- Manage user's private keys through encrypted keystore abstractions

### Global plans
- Full reference `web3js` functionality
- Light Ethereum subprotocol (LES) integration

## Special thanks to

- Gnosis team and their library [Bivrost-swift](https://github.com/gnosis/bivrost-swift) for inspiration for the ABI decoding approach
- [Trust iOS Wallet](https://github.com/TrustWallet/trust-wallet-ios) for collaboration and discussion for initial idea

## Contribution

For the latest version, please check [develop](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/tree/develop) branch.
Changes from this branch will be merged into the [master](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/tree/master) branch at some point.

- If you want to contribute, submit a [pull request](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/pulls) against a development `develop` branch.
- If you found a bug, [open an issue](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/issues).
- If you have a feature request, [open an issue](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/issues).


## Appreciation

When using this pod references to this repo, [Bankex](http://bankex.com) and [Bankex Foundation](http://bankexfoundation.org) are appreciated.

## Authors

Alex Vlasov, [@shamatar](https://github.com/shamatar),  av@bankexfoundation.org

Petr Korolev, [@skywinder](https://github.com/skywinder), pk@bankexfoundation.org

## License

web3swift is available under the Apache License 2.0 license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/BankEx/web3swift/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.

Commit message:

fix transaction sending regression, update example with use of convenience functions

Example/web3swiftExample/Pods/web3swift/README.md, after:

![bkx-foundation-github-swift](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3356474/34412791-5b58962c-ebf0-11e7-8460-5592b12e6e9d.png)

## Important notices
With the version 0.3.0 API should be less volatile. All public functions should return a [Result](https://github.com/antitypical/Result) instead of `nil` or throwing.

Example is updated for 0.5.0, although please prefer to use tests as an example for your code.

# web3swift

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/web3swift.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/web3swift)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/web3swift.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/web3swift)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/web3swift.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/web3swift)
[![support](https://brianmacdonald.github.io/Ethonate/svg/eth-support-blue.svg)](https://brianmacdonald.github.io/Ethonate/address#0x6394b37Cf80A7358b38068f0CA4760ad49983a1B)

- Swift implementation of [web3.js](https://github.com/ethereum/web3.js/) functionality :zap:
- Interaction with remote node via JSON RPC :thought_balloon:
- Smart-contract ABI parsing :book:
  - ABI deconding (V2 is supported with return of structures from public functions. Part of 0.4.22 Solidity compiler)
  - RLP encoding
- Interactions (read/write to Smart contracts) :arrows_counterclockwise:
- Local keystore management (geth compatible)
- Literally following the standarts:
  - [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) HD Wallets: Deterministic Wallet
  - [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) (Seed phrases)
  - [BIP44](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki) (Key generation prefixes)
  - [EIP-155](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-155.md) (Replay attacks protection) *enforced!*


## Check this out

- Private key and transaction were created directly on the iOS device and sent directly to [Infura](https://infura.io) node
- Native API
- Security (as cool as hard wallet! Right out-of-the-box! :box: )

## Design decisions

- Not every JSON RPC function is exposed yet, priority is gives to ones required for mobile devices
- Functionality was focused on serializing and signing transactions locally on device to send raw transaction to Ethereum network
- Requirements for password input on every transactions are indeed a design decision. Interface designers can save user passwords given user's consent
- Public function for private key export is exposed for user convenience, but marked as UNSAFE_ :) Normal workflow takes care of EIP155 compatibility and proper clearing of private key data from memory

### Here it is
[https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/tx/0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/tx/0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056)

```
Transaction
Nonce: 35
Gas price: 5000000000
Gas limit: 21000
To: 0x6394b37Cf80A7358b38068f0CA4760ad49983a1B
Value: 1000000000000000
Data: 0x
v: 43
r: 73059897783840535708732471549376620878882680550447969052675399628060606060727
s: 12280625377431973240236065453692843538037349746280474092545114784968542260859
Intrinsic chainID: Optional(4)
Infered chainID: Optional(4)
sender: Optional(web3swift.EthereumAddress(_address: "0x855adf524273c14b7260a188af0ae30e82e91959"))

["id": 1514485925, "result": 0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056, "jsonrpc": 2.0]
On Rinkeby TXid = 0xc6eca60ecac004a1501a4323a10edb7fa4cd1a0896675f6b51704c84dedad056
```

## Example

You can try it by yourself by running the example project:

- Clone the repo
- `cd Example/web3swiftExample`
- run `pod install` from the `Example/web3swiftExample` directory.
- `open ./web3swiftExample.xcworkspace`

### Requirements

Web3swift requires Swift 4.1 and iOS 9.0 or macOS 10.13 although we recommend to use the latest iOS and MacOS versions for your own safety. Don't forget to set iOS version in a Podfile, otherwise you get an error if deployment target is less than the latest SDK.

### Installation

web3swift is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod 'web3swift', git: 'https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift.git'
```
### Current functionality

- Send transactions, call functions of smart-contracts, estimate gas costs
- Serialize and deserialize transactions and results to native Swift types
- Convenience functions for chain state: block number, gas price
- Check transaction results and get receipt
- Parse event logs for transaction
- Manage user's private keys through encrypted keystore abstractions
- Batched requests in concurrent mode, checks balances of 580 tokens (from the latest MyEtherWallet repo) over 3 seconds

### Global plans
- Full reference `web3js` functionality
- Light Ethereum subprotocol (LES) integration

## Special thanks to

- Gnosis team and their library [Bivrost-swift](https://github.com/gnosis/bivrost-swift) for inspiration for the ABI decoding approach
- [Trust iOS Wallet](https://github.com/TrustWallet/trust-wallet-ios) for collaboration and discussion for initial idea
- Official Ethereum and Solidity docs, everything was written from ground truth standards
## Contribution

For the latest version, please check [develop](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/tree/develop) branch.
Changes from this branch will be merged into the [master](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/tree/master) branch at some point.

- If you want to contribute, submit a [pull request](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/pulls) against a development `develop` branch.
- If you found a bug, [open an issue](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/issues).
- If you have a feature request, [open an issue](https://github.com/BANKEX/web3swift/issues).


## Appreciation

When using this pod references to this repo, [BANKEX](http://bankex.com) and [BANKEX Foundation](http://bankexfoundation.org) are appreciated.

## Authors

Alex Vlasov, [@shamatar](https://github.com/shamatar),  av@bankexfoundation.org

Petr Korolev, [@skywinder](https://github.com/skywinder), pk@bankexfoundation.org

## License

web3swift is available under the Apache License 2.0 license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/BankEx/web3swift/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.
